---
layout: post
title: Project Background Information 3
---

{{ China cherishes return of Qing dynasty artifacts }}
================

<p class="meta">

China is delighted to see that two Qing dynasty bronzes, a rabbit head and a rat head looted by the French and British troops from Beijing's Summer Palace in 1860 will “finally come home”.

On April 26, François-Henri Pinault, head of PPR, the luxury goods group, who is part of the delegation of businessmen visiting China with French President François Hollande, promised the return of the two pieces by the end of 2013, according to reports. Song Xinchao, deputy director of  the China State Administration of Cultural Relics (SACH) who met with Pinault said that the two bronzes will probably find their new home at the National Museum of China.



The bronze heads of the rat and the rabbit that will come home 153 years after being looted by the French and British troops. Photo: baidu.com

The news was confirmed by the official Weibo of Xinhua News Agency and the European Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs later that day. Reacting to the news, many people, while expressing happiness over the return of the two artifacts, grunted over the term “donation” used by the French. “They are rightfully ours,” said one Weibo user, “It should be ‘returned’ to us, not ‘donated’.”

China's State Administration of Cultural Heritage (SACH) reacted positively to the offer, which was said to be "an expression of friendship toward the Chinese people." Four years ago in 2009, when the two relics were auctioned by international auction house Christie’s in Paris, SACH had strongly condemned the sale. The auction had also created uproar among the Chinese people who still carry strong sentiments with regard to the history of British imperialism in China.

The highest bidder, a Cai Mimgchao who won the auction with a winning bid of 28 million euros refused to pay the money, claiming that he was bidding on moral and patriotic grounds. The pieces later came into possession of the Pinault family, owners of French conglomerate Kering.

Of the 12 bronze heads that were looted during the Second Opium War, the heads of the ox, the tiger, the monkey and the pig were bought back by patriotic Chinese businessmen from separate auctions in the past decade and stored at Beijing’s Poly Art Museum. The horse head is in Taiwan. With the return of the rat and rabbit heads, there are still five missing: the heads of the dragon, the snake, the ram, the rooster and the dog.